"So you honestly had no idea at all?" Ramsey asked me, surprised. I have never followed news about celebrities and I've never asked my
girlfriend "Are you THAT Ramsey?" I thought it would be silly. Probably have heard that a dozen of times, so I said nothing.
"No, I really had no idea." Awkward silence fell between us. He stood in the doorway of the kitchen for a while, looking at me.
"So..." I broke the silence and turned to the table.
"What you think of the steak?" I asked.
"It was bought frozen, right?" he looked into my eyes.
"Yes."
 I'm not a man that can be intimidated easily, but something about "It is thawed. The steak is thawed" this whole thing gave me the creeps. A strange man he is.
I stuttered. "I mean, not everyone can be a good cook."
"Oh no, that isn't a problem. Listen, not everyone can be a good cook and it would be absolutely moronic to expect anything different. I did not come here to eat great cuisine and you know that. I came here because this is my kitchen. But that, right now, is neither here nor there. Each has their own strengths and yours is not cooking."
I finally felt relieved. Turned out that his anger and rage is all for show. But, still, for some reason he did not look entirely happy.
"Well, that is right." I agreed.
and there he interrupted me. "But you still are frowning. I mean, I'm a great..." and there he interrupted me.
"A great scum is what you are! God damn, man! Matilda is just 16 years old! And how old are you? Like, thirty? What the fuck? What is your problem you absolute wanker? And I catch you in my kitchen at three am cooking steaks? Scraping my pans with a metal spatula? Using my spices? I give you three seconds to get out or there will be idiot-casserole for breakfast!"
her father said, distaste darkening every furrow in his meaty face.
"Are these steaks precooked?"
I nodded. I had spent the entire afternoon heating them up to perfection. "I went to your website and followed your instructions."
"That right?"
I nodded again and glanced at my girlfriend. She looked at her hands, clearly expecting her father to throw a fit any time now.
"The meat is just… dreadful."
"Truly dreadful. I’ve eaten rocks more tender."
"I’m sorry, Mr. Ramsey."
"Dad, I told you what happened to his shopping bags."
"Right, you did your best, and to be fair, the seasoning isn’t all that bad. I'd even admit that potatoes and wine sauce are expertly done," Gordon said and wiped his mouth.
"This is probably the best result you could’ve achieved given the horrendous meat – I mean, awful – next time you pick it out, pay attention to where it’s from. Pay attention while shopping, young man."
"I do not want you treating my little girl to this kind of quality – hell, she might need new teeth if you keep this up."
I nodded and apologized. "Let me take your plate, sir."
My girlfriend met me in the kitchen. Should I tell him?
"I’m not sure that’s a good idea. Hopefully, he’ll let it slide – I don’t want to hurt his feelings."
She smiled and pecked my cheek, before returning to the table. I opened the freezer and dug out the rest of the meat. I had kept it all this time – it almost felt wrong cooking it, but what other choice did I have after my groceries got stolen.
I could still remember her smile when she handed me the wrapped meat that her father had cooked for us.
We hadn’t been able to finish it then – the meat hadn’t been great, as he so eloquently had pointed out – and had put the leftovers in the freezer for sentimental reasons.
Despite his rugged exterior and bad boy image, Mr. Ramsey was a kind man with a good heart.
And sometimes even master chefs picked out the wrong meat.
I'm sorry but he had to move "his flight up a day "
"so we need to have dinner tonight. You know how important this is to me," Erica said over the phone.
"I know, I'll make it work. See you tonight." Jack hung up the phone in a panic.
He rifled through the refrigerator before desperately searching the freezer for something to cook.
The only thing he had was four slabs of frozen beef.
He had been planning on going to the grocery tomorrow morning and now all he had was two cans of green beans and
the frozen steaks.
He knew it was sacrilegious but he didn't have time, he popped the steaks into the microwave and hit defrost.
The beans went into a pot with some butter and turned the heat on low.
The microwave dinged and the doorbell rang.
Oh my god. He's here.
A new wave of panic washed over Jack.
He took a deep steadying breath and answered the door.
Erica's golden hair caught the light and she smiled brightly.
Mr. Ramsey stood beside her with a stoic expression.
"Mr. Ramsey it's a pleasure to meet you," Jack said extending his hand.
Mr. Ramsey took it, "Please, just call me Gordon."
There was a long pause as they stood in the doorway.
"Are you going to invite us in?" Erica asked playfully.
"Oh, I'm so sorry! Please come in. Dinner will be done soon."
" Make yourselves comfortable and I'll pour some wine."
Jack hustled back inside allowing Erica to show Gordon around.
They took a seat in the living room and Gordon scrutinized the interior decorating.
"A bit, spartan isn't it."
"He doesn't like to buy things that aren't necessary," Erica defended.
Gordon let out a quiet thoughtful hmmm.
The steaks sizzled on the grill top and the beans were cooked to the perfect texture.
He poured three glasses of his best red wine and plated everything.
It may not have been served at one of Gordon's restaurants but Jack was proud of it.
"Dinner's served!" he said from the kitchen and delivered the plates to the dining room table.
Gordon sat and eyed the plate of food and the corners of his mouth twitched.
"Thank you, Jack it looks lovely," Erica said kicking her father's foot underneath the table.
"Yes, thank you Jack," Gordon said and cut into the steak.
Jack's heart caught in his throat as Gordon put a bite of steak into his mouth and chewed.
Gordon swallowed and cut another bite, then another.
Erica smiled across the table at Jack.
They sat around the table talking and laughing.
Gordon made a joke about working in TV and how much he hated how fake everything was.
It didn't take long for Jack to forget about the steak or the pressure he had felt cooking for someone like Gordon Ramsey.
The wine and conversation flowed effortlessly.
"I hate to retire so early, but I've got an early flight in the morning. It was a pleasure to meet you, Jack."
"Thank you so much," Jack said shaking Gordon's hand again.
"I'll walk you out dad," Erica said leading her father to the door.
As the door shut behind them Erica asked, "Well. What do you think?"
"I think the steak was dry."
"Dad!"
"I'm kidding. If you like him that's good enough for me. I like him too."
Erica threw her arms around her father and squeezed him tightly.
"Thanks dad."
I stewed in that thorny silence, wondering if I would survive the three storey fall, and then Matilda's father spoke.
"You're Richard?" he said, an eyebrow rising.
He was far more subdued than he usually was on TV, but I was sure that the rage had to be seething underneath.
Here in my kitchen, where the yellow lights were kinder than the harsh whites of a studio, he seemed almost... human.
Matilda's weak smile seemed to say that everything would be fine.
How could it be, when you're a poor student who's cooked a meal for Ramsey friggin' Gordon?
"Yes, yes I am, Mr Gordon," I said, almost losing my hand in his bear grip.
"Matilda never... mentioned that you were related, otherwise I would never have suggested... cooking at home..."
"Oh, it's alright!" Matilda piped up, urging her father to take a seat.
"I just wanted dad to see how I was getting along at college," the real deal, no pretense.
Just a normal, healthy home-cooked meal, right, dad?
I had a thousand questions for Matilda, but I stifled them, and focused instead on transferring dinner from the stove to our plates.
 he asked. "What would you... say menu for this dinner comprises?"
His voice was still soft, but there was most definitely an edge to it now.
"Just simple fare, really," I said.
"Boiled cabbage and carrots, mushroom gravy, and... grilled steaks, medium-rare."
"Time?" he said.
"Time?" I repeated.
"He means how long did you... Cook the steaks for," Matilda said.
"Er," I replied, intelligently.
"I poked the meat? With a stick? When it started getting tough, I... stopped?"
As Matilda and her father exchanged silent glances, I wondered if it wasn't too late to take that flight I had considered earlier.
