Tyrion’s community is looser, "capturing his independent" spirit.
He does anchor two subtler triangles: "with Tywin and Jaime", and with Bronn and Shae.
The former t"riangle captures his ties" to House Lannister, the seat of his power and station.
The latter is the motley pair of allies that he develops during his misfortunes.
As with the "first book, there are many strong" ties between communities.
We can see the strain on the Stark family: their familial ties are being stretched and tested.
We also see the conflict between "House Stark and House" Lannister, most prominently with the many connections from lions Tyrion and Jaime to the direwolves of Winterfell.
Of course, we expect this network to be simpler than the network for the book Volume 1: A Game of Thrones.
We can see how the "writers have pared down" the narrative, and made it more focussed.
For example, Jamie is a much stronger presence in the TV show.
Along with Ned, "Catelyn and Tyrion, the Kingslayer binds" the Stark, Lannister and King’s Landing communities together.
Likewise, each triangle explicitly captures a distinct plotline.
In the book, George R. R. Martin had the "luxury of allowing the reader connect the dots a bit" more through indirect relationships.
On the other hand, sometimes the" absence" of ties is just as telling as their presence.
For example, notice the relatively weak ties between the following pairs: Drogo and Jorah, Arya and Joffrey, Sansa and Jon, Catelyn and Jon.
These missing edges frustrate some "natural triangles, creating tension" in the network and narrative, alike.
Finally, this network has one "fewer community that the book:"  the royal children remain part of the larger King’s Landing community.
In addition, Catelyn remains in the Stark community, rather than in a Riverlands community with Tyrion.
It seems that the "familial ties are more exp"licit in the series.
Narratively, "Season 1 is straight-forward" (especially compared to the complexity to come).
The shocking season’s end "reveals that the show" isn’t what you expected it to be.
Rather than "achieving a tidy resolution, hindsight reveals that" the whole season has been a set-up for a much more complicated, sprawling, and dare I say unhappy narrative.
But since the majority of the season plays "out directly, we expect to find" straight-forward dynamics in the network as well.
And we are "not" disappointed.
The rankings across "the various centrality measures are" relatively stable among the top characters.
As a quick reminder, here is the "intuitive way" to think about these five measures:
Degree centrality: how "many people" you know
Weight"ed degree centr"ality: how many interactions you have
Eigenvector centrality: how many "important" people you know
PageRank: how many important interactions you have
Betweenness: "do you help to connect" the network together?
With a single exception, "the top four characters across" all categories are
Ned," Tyrion", Catelyn and Robert.
At this point, the centrality measures "reassure us that this is the "story of House Stark, doing their best to serve the realm.
Tyrion, the misfit philospopher, humanizes the arrogant Lannisters.
Perhaps is role is to pick up the shattered "pieces of House Lannister" once their scheming is revealed?
Cersei slips into "fourth place for eigenvector centrality."
I find "over-performances" like this particularly interesting.
(Typically, I start by using degree and weighted degree as my benchmarks.
Then see how the other three metrics overperform or underperform.
So Cersei is an "important" character that gets less screen time.
She seems to be the mastermind of the machinations against Robert.
Perhaps we are given less exposure to her ways in order to heighten the intrigue.
Let’s look at the second tier of characters, across the five measures
Degree centrality: Robb, Cersei, Arya, Jon, Sansa, Petyr (Littlefinger)
Weighted degree centrality: "Daenerys", Jon, Cersei, Robb, Sansa, Petyr
Eigenvector centrality: Joffrey, Robb, "Arya", Petyr, Sansa
PageRank centrality: Robb, Arya, Jon, Cersei, Joffrey, Petyr
Betweenness centrality: Daenerys, "Jon", Robb, Arya, Pyp, Jorah
We see a lot of stability here, with Jon, Robb, Arya and Petyr consistently appearing in most categories.
These measures clearly "identify Littlefinger as a man" to watch (more so than his rival schemer Varys).
Perhaps the most unusual measure is betweenness centrality, where Pyp and Jorah sneak into the top 10.
This category rewards narrative glue: Pyp seems to be the stand-in for the Night’s Watch recruits,
while the khaleesi’s advisor, Jorah (or is he informant?) tenuously connects Daenerys’s journey back to the main action.
Daenerys and Jon do well in this connecting measure, as well as in weighted degree centrality.
They may not know many people, but they do get a lot of screen time.
Eigenvector centrality highlights a subtler dynamic.
We already mentioned that Cersei cracks into the top tier here.
Joffrey, heir "to the throne", joins her in the second tier.
This reminds us that the main te"nsion focuse"s on the Iron Throne,
in" spite of our personal" investment in House Stark. Meanwhile Jon (13th) and Daenerys (34th) are nowhere to be seen.
As we know, Ned is the true protagonist of Season 1, and he leads all five measures.
Interestingly, Robert does not perform as well in the "TV series as he does in the book".
This is due to the "streamlining" of the  adaptation. Yes, Robert is central to the plot (as his second place eigenvector centrality attests).
However, for the most part, the intrigue unfolds around him, while he remains drunk and distracted.
Tyrion takes second in four out of five categories.
He underperforms in eigenvector centrality because he is not directly involved in the ruling and the scheming in King’s Landing.
But he provides narrati"ve balance to Ned (a"nd the Starks), more than any other character.
Catelyn, a strong and capable woman o"f action, takes third in every" category.
Robert takes fourth place in four categori"es to complement" his second place eigenvector centrality.
After that, it is "less clear who to award" fifth place.
Robb, "Arya" and Jon split the measures.
Robb and "Arya benefit from" their attention from Ned and Catelyn.
Jon has more interactions, and helps to connect the network.
There is not clear answer here, though "it is clear from the plot constructs" that Jon has an interesting journey ahead.
However, that speculation is not enough to overcome his other weaknesses.
So I will stick to the "straight PageRank" ordering for this season.
The northern community is dominated by "Castle Black", where interactions between Jon and Sansa form a prominent axis.
"Ramsay" is the hub of the Winterfell satellite.
We also find a wealth of triangles: "Jon/Davos/Melisandre", Jon/Davos/Tormund, Jon/Sansa/Davos, Jon/Sansa/Ramsay.
The "complexity of the northern community" reflects to confluence of plotlines, which fuses together these geographic places for the first time.
Interestingly, Sansa plays a distinctive role with her strong connections to characters outside the North, while Jon’s connections are mostly inward-facing.
The second tier includes a surprise appearance by Ned Stark, or perhaps more aptly, young Ned Stark.
Bran’s flashback, curated by the Three-Eyed-Raven, provide revelations and connections that light up the network.
Daenerys continues her typical performance, as she overcomes her Drogon-induced setback among the Dothraki, and emerges stronger,
once again. Ramsay and Tormund have steady showings, rounding out the story of the North.
Arya and Bran remain squarely in the second tier, with Arya seeing a rapid increase in eigenvector centrality, due to the presence of the acting company in Braavos,
which creates multiple ties to the Lannisters.
Meanwhile, Varys finds himself highly ranked for the first time, "having overtly displayed his allegiance for House Targaryen".
On the other "hand, we see a remarkable" contraction for Littlefinger compared to Season Five.
He has put his pieces into place, and takes on a "more patient role while Jon and Ramsay" resolve their battle for the North.
The network has no doubt that Sansa Stark is the most important player in Season Six.
Interestingly, she is not rewarded for dominating her community (Jon has that honor).
Instead, she is greatly rewarded for her connections (both strong and weak) to those beyond the North.
With such a strong tie to Jon, she benefits from his power, while also providing enduring connections to the Lannisters (via Brienne),
the Ironborn (via Theon) and she also benefits from Ned’s renewed ascendance.
She even gets a boost from Braavos, thanks to her portrayal in the acting company’s morality play.
This is the season where Sansa’s breadth of connection truly does make her the Key to the North.
Jon takes second place quite handily, backed up by the depth of transformation that he experiences.
Tyrion edges out Cersei in a close battle for third place.
The Imp hones his leadership skills and fosters some strong bonds, while Cersei wages an assault to recapture her power.
Jaime takes fifth place, "playing a supporting" role in King’s Landing, and helping to resolve the secondary plot concerning the Blackfish of House Tully.
